by Bryan Petty ([Tierra](/User:Tierra "wikilink") 22:38, 30 Aug 2007
(CEST))

These are some bare minimum instructions for using this Open Source mod
to Eventum for allowing anonymous (non-registered) user access to
tracker issues. If you have any questions, direct them to the Eventum
mailing list. Even if I don't see your post myself, others there may be
able to help.

Currently, only version 2.0.1 of Eventum is supported by this patch, but
it may still work with newer (and maybe older) versions.

If you haven't installed Eventum yet, do so now following the official
instructions, then come back here.

Setup Instructions {#setup-instructions}
------------------

Please backup your Eventum installation before continuing.

### Step \#1: Apply the Patch {#step-1-apply-the-patch}

The first step is to apply the source patch needed to make this work.
This can be done in one of two ways, only one of these is required.

#### Using Patch Utilities with the Patch File {#using-patch-utilities-with-the-patch-file}

If you are working on a Windows-based server, or you are not familiar
with using patch utilities, you may want to skip down to the other
method.

-   Download
    [eventum-2.0.1-osmod.patch](http://ibaku.net/eventum/eventum-2.0.1-osmod.patch)
    to your root Eventum directory.
-   Run the following command from the root installation directory:
        $ patch -p0 < eventum-2.0.1-osmod.patch

-   If there were any errors, try the second method, otherwise you're
    done and can move down to step \#2.

#### Using Pre-Patched Files {#using-pre-patched-files}

-   Windows Users
    -   Download
        [eventum-2.0.1-osmod.tar.gz](http://ibaku.net/eventum/eventum-2.0.1-osmod.tar.gz).
    -   Unpack the contained files, and upload them to your root Eventum
        installation directory, overwriting the existing files.
-   Linux / Unix / Mac Users
    -   Download
        [eventum-2.0.1-osmod.tar.gz](http://ibaku.net/eventum/eventum-2.0.1-osmod.tar.gz)
        to your root Eventum directory.
    -   Run the following command from the root installation directory:
            $ tar xzvf eventum-2.0.1-osmod.tar.gz

### Step \#2: Add an Anonymous User {#step-2-add-an-anonymous-user}

-   From the Administration panel, add a new user keeping this in mind:
    -   This will require specifying an email address, which doesn't
        have to be a real email address, but I would recommend setting
        up a real email account anyway (they're usually free anyway).
    -   The password can be anything. Anonymous users will not be able
        to retrieve the password, nor will they be able to change it. It
        won't be required to login either, so it doesn't really matter
        what you use.
    -   The full name isn't important, but it will be what users see as
        their "logged in name" on every page. I'd recommend using
        "Anonymous" to indicate that they haven't registered or logged
        in.
    -   Assigned Role: Here's where the magic of this approach to
        supporting anonymous users comes in. You can configure any level
        of access for anonymous users, as well as per-project access
        levels just like you would for any other registered user. You
        should be able to find a configuration that best suits your
        needs. Personally, for my open source projects, I prefer to keep
        this access at 'Viewer' levels, and still require users to
        register if they want to actually submit or comment on issues.

### Step \#3: Add the Account to Your Configuration File {#step-3-add-the-account-to-your-configuration-file}

-   Open the config/config.php file for editing. If you followed the
    Eventum installation instructions to the letter, this file should be
    set as read-only, so you will need to change it back to writable
    first.
-   Add the following line anywhere in the file:

<!-- -->

    define('APP_ANON_USER', 'anonymous@example.org');

-   Make sure the email used in the line above is the same as the
    anonymous user you just setup. This will make that account the
    default anon user.

That's it! If you log out of Eventum, you will be forwarded to the login
page, however, if you simply direct your browser to "list.php", you'll
find that you are automatically logged in as the anonymous user (though
it won't look like you're logged in since it will have "Login" and
"Register" links shown still).

If you direct your browser at either the Login page, or the Sign Up /
Register page, you are automatically logged back out of the anonymous
account so you are able to login or register.

You will also notice that any links to "Preferences" have disappeared.
Anonymous users are not able to change the account preferences (don't
worry, they've been locked out of the page even if they tried the direct
URL approach). In addition, saved searches are disabled, and you won't
be able to search for issues that are assigned to the anonymous user (as
this would be fairly useless).

If you find any other aspects of Eventum that show up to Anonymous
users, but probably shouldn't, please let me know on the Eventum mailing
list.

Full Source of the Patch {#full-source-of-the-patch}
------------------------

This is saved here for posterity (and in case my server isn't
available). Without needing to copy and & paste this all to a file, you
can download the patch here:
<http://ibaku.net/eventum/eventum-2.0.1-osmod.patch>

    Index: adv_search.php
    ===================================================================
    --- adv_search.php  (revision 3372)
    +++ adv_search.php  (working copy)
    @@ -61,7 +61,9 @@
         "-1"    =>  "un-assigned",
         "-2"    =>  "myself and un-assigned"
     );
    -if (User::getGroupID(Auth::getUserID()) != '') {
    +if (Auth::isAnonUser())
    +    unset($assign_options["-2"]);
    +else if (User::getGroupID(Auth::getUserID()) != '') {
         $assign_options['-3'] = 'myself and my group';
         $assign_options['-4'] = 'myself, un-assigned and my group';
     }
    Index: include/class.auth.php
    ===================================================================
    --- include/class.auth.php  (revision 3372)
    +++ include/class.auth.php  (working copy)
    @@ -99,7 +99,10 @@
             }
             $failed_url .= "&url=" . Auth::getRequestedURL();
             if (!isset($_COOKIE[$cookie_name])) {
    -            Auth::redirect($failed_url, $is_popup);
    +            // Auth::redirect($failed_url, $is_popup);
    +            Auth::createFakeCookie(User::getUserIDByEmail(APP_ANON_USER));
    +            @Auth::createLoginCookie(APP_COOKIE, APP_ANON_USER);
    +            Session::init(User::getUserIDByEmail(APP_ANON_USER));
             }
             $cookie = $_COOKIE[$cookie_name];
             $cookie = unserialize(base64_decode($cookie));
    @@ -156,6 +159,23 @@


         /**
    +     * Method for logging out the currently logged in user.
    +     *
    +     * @access  public
    +     * @returns void
    +     */
    +    function logout()
    +    {
    +        Auth::removeCookie(APP_COOKIE);
    +        // if 'remember projects' is true don't remove project cookie
    +        $project_cookie = Auth::getCookieInfo(APP_PROJECT_COOKIE);
    +        if (empty($project_cookie['remember'])) {
    +            Auth::removeCookie(APP_PROJECT_COOKIE);
    +        }
    +    }
    +
    +
    +    /**
          * Method to check whether an user is pending its confirmation
          * or not.
          *
    @@ -230,6 +250,18 @@


         /**
    +     * Method to check if the current user is an anonymous user.
    +     *
    +     * @access  public
    +     * @return  boolean
    +     */
    +    function isAnonUser()
    +    {
    +        return Auth::getUserID() == User::getUserIDByEmail(APP_ANON_USER);
    +    }
    +
    +
    +    /**
          * Method used to get the unserialized contents of the specified cookie
          * name.
          *
    @@ -436,7 +468,7 @@
                 return isset($cookie['prj_id']) ? (int )$cookie['prj_id'] : null;
             }
             if (!in_array($cookie["prj_id"], array_keys($projects))) {
    -            Auth::redirect(APP_RELATIVE_URL . "select_project.php?err=1");
    +            Auth::redirect(APP_RELATIVE_URL . "select_project.php");
             }
             return $cookie["prj_id"];
         }
    Index: include/class.template.php
    ===================================================================
    --- include/class.template.php  (revision 3372)
    +++ include/class.template.php  (working copy)
    @@ -185,6 +185,7 @@
                 $this->assign("current_email", $info["usr_email"]);
                 $this->assign("current_user_id", $usr_id);
                 $this->assign("is_current_user_clocked_in", User::isClockedIn($usr_id));
    +            $this->assign("is_anon_user", Auth::isAnonUser());
                 $this->assign("roles", User::getAssocRoleIDs());
             }
             $this->assign("app_setup", Setup::load());
    Index: index.php
    ===================================================================
    --- index.php   (revision 3372)
    +++ index.php   (working copy)
    @@ -42,7 +42,12 @@
     $tpl = new Template_API();
     $tpl->setTemplate("index.tpl.html");

    -if (Auth::hasValidCookie(APP_COOKIE)) {
    +// log anonymous users out so they can use the login form
    +if (Auth::hasValidCookie(APP_COOKIE) && Auth::isAnonUser()) {
    +    Auth::logout();
    +}
    +
    +if (Auth::hasValidCookie(APP_COOKIE) && !Auth::isAnonUser()) {
         $cookie = Auth::getCookieInfo(APP_COOKIE);
         if (!empty($_REQUEST["url"])) {
             $extra = '?url=' . $_REQUEST["url"];
    Index: list.php
    ===================================================================
    --- list.php    (revision 3372)
    +++ list.php    (working copy)
    @@ -79,7 +79,9 @@
         "-1"    =>  ev_gettext("un-assigned"),
         "-2"    =>  ev_gettext("myself and un-assigned")
     );
    -if (User::getGroupID($usr_id) != '') {
    +if (Auth::isAnonUser())
    +    unset($assign_options["-2"]);
    +else if (User::getGroupID($usr_id) != '') {
         $assign_options['-3'] = ev_gettext('myself and my group');
         $assign_options['-4'] = ev_gettext('myself, un-assigned and my group');
     }
    Index: logout.php
    ===================================================================
    --- logout.php  (revision 3372)
    +++ logout.php  (working copy)
    @@ -30,11 +30,6 @@
     require_once(dirname(__FILE__) . "/init.php");
     require_once(APP_INC_PATH . "class.auth.php");

    -Auth::removeCookie(APP_COOKIE);
    +Auth::logout();

    -// if 'remember projects' is true don't remove project cookie
    -$project_cookie = Auth::getCookieInfo(APP_PROJECT_COOKIE);
    -if (empty($project_cookie['remember'])) {
    -    Auth::removeCookie(APP_PROJECT_COOKIE);
    -}
     Auth::redirect(APP_RELATIVE_URL . "index.php?err=6");
    Index: preferences.php
    ===================================================================
    --- preferences.php (revision 3372)
    +++ preferences.php (working copy)
    @@ -50,6 +50,10 @@

     Auth::checkAuthentication(APP_COOKIE);

    +if (Auth::isAnonUser()) {
    +    Auth::redirect("index.php");
    +}
    +
     $usr_id = Auth::getUserID();

     if (@$_POST["cat"] == "update_account") {
    Index: signup.php
    ===================================================================
    --- signup.php  (revision 3372)
    +++ signup.php  (working copy)
    @@ -35,6 +35,11 @@
     $tpl = new Template_API();
     $tpl->setTemplate("signup.tpl.html");

    +// log anonymous users out so they can use the signup form
    +if (Auth::hasValidCookie(APP_COOKIE) && Auth::isAnonUser()) {
    +    Auth::logout();
    +}
    +
     if (@$_POST['cat'] == 'signup') {
         $setup = Setup::load();
         $res = User::createVisitorAccount($setup['accounts_role'], $setup['accounts_projects']);
    Index: templates/adv_search.tpl.html
    ===================================================================
    --- templates/adv_search.tpl.html   (revision 3372)
    +++ templates/adv_search.tpl.html   (working copy)
    @@ -302,6 +302,7 @@
                 </select>
               </td>
             </tr>
    +   {if !$is_anon_user}
             <tr>
               <td colspan="5">
                 <table width="100%" cellspacing="0" border="0" cellpadding="0">
    @@ -319,6 +320,7 @@
                 </table>
               </td>
             </tr>
    +   {/if}
             <tr>
               <td colspan="5">
               <hr>
    @@ -599,6 +601,7 @@
                 <input class="button" type="reset" value="{t}Reset{/t}">
               </td>
             </tr>
    +   {if !$is_anon_user}
             <tr>
               <td colspan="5" align="center" bgcolor="{$light_color}">
                 <span class="default">{t}Search Title{/t}:</span>
    @@ -615,6 +618,7 @@
                 <input class="button" type="button" value="Save Search" onClick="javascript:saveCustomFilter(this.form);">
               </td>
             </tr>
    +   {/if}
             </form>
           </table>
         </td>
    @@ -623,6 +627,7 @@
         </td>
       </tr>
     </table>
    +{if !$is_anon_user}
     <br />
     <table width="450" bgcolor="{$cell_color}" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="1" align="center">
       <tr>
    @@ -682,6 +687,7 @@
         </td>
       </tr>
     </table>
    +{/if}

     <script language="JavaScript">
     <!--
    Index: templates/navigation.tpl.html
    ===================================================================
    --- templates/navigation.tpl.html   (revision 3372)
    +++ templates/navigation.tpl.html   (working copy)
    @@ -5,7 +5,7 @@
           <table width="100%" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="4" bgcolor="{$cell_color}">
             <tr>
               <td class="default_white">
    -            <b>{$app_setup.tool_caption|default:$application_title}</b> (<a title="{t}logout from{/t} {$app_setup.tool_caption|default:$application_title}" target="_top" href="{$rel_url}logout.php" class="white_link">{t}Logout{/t}</a>)
    +            <b>{$app_setup.tool_caption|default:$application_title}</b> ({if !$is_anon_user}<a title="{t}logout from{/t} {$app_setup.tool_caption|default:$application_title}" target="_top" href="{$rel_url}logout.php" class="white_link">{t}Logout{/t}</a>{else}<a target="_top" href="{$rel_url}index.php" class="white_link">{t}Login{/t}</a>{/if})
               </td>
               <td align="right" class="default_white">
                 {if $current_role > $roles.developer}
    @@ -87,8 +87,8 @@
               {/if}
               <td width="50%" nowrap bgcolor="{$light_color}" class="default">
                 <b>{$current_role_name}: {$current_full_name}{if $current_role > $roles.standard_user} [{t}CLOCKED{/t} {if $is_current_user_clocked_in}{t}IN{/t}{else}{t}OUT{/t}{/if}]{/if}</b>
    -            (<a target="_top" title="{t}modify your account details and preferences{/t}" href="{$rel_url}preferences.php" class="link">{t}Preferences{/t}</a>{if $current_role > $roles.standard_user}
    -            <a target="_top" title="{t}change your account clocked-in status{/t}" href="javascript:void(null);" onClick="javascript:changeClockStatus();" class="link">{t}Clock{/t} {if $is_current_user_clocked_in}{t}Out{/t}{else}{t}In{/t}{/if}</a>{/if})
    +            ({if $is_anon_user}<a target="_top" href="{$rel_url}signup.php" class="link">{t}Register{/t}</a>{else}<a target="_top" title="{t}modify your account details and preferences{/t}" href="{$rel_url}preferences.php" class="link">{t}Preferences{/t}</a>{if $current_role > $roles.standard_user}
    +            <a target="_top" title="{t}change your account clocked-in status{/t}" href="javascript:void(null);" onClick="javascript:changeClockStatus();" class="link">{t}Clock{/t} {if $is_current_user_clocked_in}{t}Out{/t}{else}{t}In{/t}{/if}</a>{/if}{/if})
               </td>
               <form target="_top" method="get" action="{$rel_url}list.php">
               <td width="5%" nowrap bgcolor="{$light_color}">